# Straightedge Network Light Client

## Straightedge CLI

`strcli` is the command-line interface tool that enables you to interact with a node that runs on the Straightedge Network.

### Keys

#### Key Types

There are three types of key representations that are used:

- `str`
  - Derived from account keys generated by `./strcli keys add`
  - Used to receive funds
  - e.g. `str15h6vd5f0wqps26zjlwrc6chah08ryu4hzzdwhc`

* `strvaloper`
  - Used to associate a validator to it's operator
  - Used to invoke staking commands
  - e.g. `strvaloper1carzvgq3e6y3z5kz5y6gxp3wpy3qdrv928vyah`

- `strpub`

  - Derived from account keys generated by `./strcli keys add`
  - e.g. `strpub1zcjduc3q7fu03jnlu2xpl75s2nkt7krm6grh4cc5aqth73v0zwmea25wj2hsqhlqzm`

- `strvalconspub`
  - Generated when the node is created with `strd init`.
  - Get this value with `strd tendermint show-validator`
  - e.g. `strvalconspub1zcjduepq0ms2738680y72v44tfyqm3c9ppduku8fs6sr73fx7m666sjztznqzp2emf`

#### Generate Keys

You'll need an account private and public key pair \(a.k.a. `sk, pk` respectively\) to be able to receive funds, send txs, bond tx, etc.

To generate a new _secp256k1_ key:

```bash
./strcli keys add <key-alias>
```

The output of the above command will contain a _seed phrase_. It is recommended to save the _seed phrase_ in a safe place so that in case you forget the password of the operating system's credentials store, you could eventually regenerate the key from the seed phrase with the following command:

```bash
./strcli keys add --recover
```

You can also backup your key using `export`, which outputs to _stderr_:

_(copy and paste to a `<key-export-file>`)_

```bash
./strcli keys export <key-alias>
```

and import it with:

```bash
./strcli keys import <key-alias> <key-export-file>
```

If you check your private keys, you'll now see `<key-alias>`:

```bash
./strcli keys show <key-alias>
```

If you want to just see your str address:

```bash
./strcli keys show <key-alias> -a
```

View the validator operator's address via:

```bash
./strcli keys show <key-alias> --bech=val
```

You can see all your available keys by typing:

```bash
./strcli keys list
```

View the validator pubkey for your node by typing:

```bash
strd tendermint show-validator
```

Note that this is the Tendermint signing key, _not_ the operator key you will use in delegation transactions.

::: danger Warning
We strongly recommend _NOT_ using the same passphrase for multiple keys. The Tendermint team and the Interchain Foundation will not be responsible for the loss of funds.
:::

#### Generate Multisig Public Keys

You can generate and print a multisig public key by typing:

```bash
./strcli keys add --multisig=name1,name2,name3[...] --multisig-threshold=K <new-key-alias>
```

`K` is the minimum number of private keys that must have signed the
transactions that carry the public key's address as signer.

The `--multisig` flag must contain the name of public keys that will be combined into a
public key that will be generated and stored as `new-key-alias` in the local database.
All names supplied through `--multisig` must already exist in the local database. Unless
the flag `--nosort` is set, the order in which the keys are supplied on the command line
does not matter, i.e. the following commands generate two identical keys:

```bash
./strcli keys add --multisig=foo,bar,baz --multisig-threshold=2 <multisig-address>
./strcli keys add --multisig=baz,foo,bar --multisig-threshold=2 <multisig-address>
```

Multisig addresses can also be generated on-the-fly and printed through the which command:

```bash
./strcli keys show --multisig-threshold K name1 name2 name3 [...]
```

For more information regarding how to generate, sign and broadcast transactions with a multi-signature account see [Multisig Transactions](#multisig-transactions).

### Tx Broadcasting

When broadcasting transactions, `strcli` accepts a `--broadcast-mode` flag. This
flag can have a value of `sync` (default), `async`, or `block`, where `sync` makes
the client return a CheckTx response, `async` makes the client return immediately,
and `block` makes the client wait for the tx to be committed (or timing out).

It is important to note that the `block` mode should **not** be used in most
circumstances. This is because broadcasting can timeout but the tx may still be
included in a block. This can result in many undesirable situations. Therefore, it
is best to use `sync` or `async` and query by tx hash to determine when the tx
is included in a block.

### Fees & Gas

Each transaction may either supply fees or gas prices, but not both.

Validator's have a minimum gas price (multi-denom) configuration and they use
this value when when determining if they should include the transaction in a block during `CheckTx`, where `gasPrices >= minGasPrices`. Note, your transaction must supply fees that are greater than or equal to **any** of the denominations the validator requires.

**Note**: With such a mechanism in place, validators may start to prioritize
txs by `gasPrice` in the mempool, so providing higher fees or gas prices may yield higher tx priority.

e.g.

```bash
./strcli tx send ... --fees=50000astr
```

or

```bash
./strcli tx send ... --gas-prices=0.025astr
```

### Account

#### Get Tokens

On a testnet, getting tokens is usually done via a faucet.

#### Query Account Balance

After receiving tokens to your address, you can view your account's balance by typing:

```bash
./strcli q account <str-address>
```

Get your `<str-address>` using:

```bash
./strcli keys show -a <key-alias>
```

(the _-a_ flag is used to display the address only)

Optionally, you can supply your address within the command as:

```bash
./strcli q account $(./strcli keys show -a <key-alias>)
```

::: warning Note
When you query an account balance with zero tokens, you will get this error: `No account with address <str-address> was found in the state.` This can also happen if you fund the account before your node has fully synced with the chain. These are both normal.

### Send Tokens

The following command could be used to send coins from one account to another:

```bash
./strcli tx send <sender-key-alias-or-address> <recipient-address> 10astr \
	--memo <tx-memo> \
	--chain-id=<chain-id>
```

::: warning Note
The `amount` argument accepts the format `<value|coin_name>`.
:::

::: tip Note
You may want to cap the maximum gas that can be consumed by the transaction via the `--gas` flag.

If you pass `--gas=auto`, the gas supply will be automatically estimated before executing the transaction.

Gas estimate might be inaccurate as state changes could occur in between the end of the simulation and the actual execution of a transaction, thus an adjustment is applied on top of the original estimate in order to ensure the transaction is broadcasted successfully. The adjustment can be controlled via the `--gas-adjustment` flag, whose default value is 1.0.
:::

Now, view the updated balances of the origin and destination accounts:

```bash
./strcli q account <str-address>
./strcli q account <recipient-address>
```

You can also check your balance at a given block by using the `--block` flag:

```bash
./strcli q account <str-address> --block=<block_height>
```

You can simulate a transaction without actually broadcasting it by appending the
`--dry-run` flag to the command line:

```bash
./strcli tx send <sender-key-alias-or-address> <recipient-address> 10astr \
  --chain-id=<chain-id> \
  --dry-run
```

Furthermore, you can build a transaction and print its JSON format to STDOUT by
appending `--generate-only` to the list of the command line arguments:

```bash
./strcli tx send <sender-key-alias-or-address> <recipient-address> 10astr \
  --chain-id=<chain-id> \
  --generate-only > unsignedSendTx.json
```

```bash
./strcli tx sign \
  --chain-id=<chain-id> \
  --from=<key-alias> \
  unsignedSendTx.json > signedSendTx.json
```

::: tip Note
The `--generate-only` flag prevents `strcli` from accessing the local keybase.
Thus when such flag is supplied `<sender-key-alias-or-address>` must be an address.
:::

You can validate the transaction's signatures by typing the following:

```bash
./strcli tx sign --validate-signatures --from=<key-alias> signedSendTx.json
```

You can broadcast the signed transaction to a node by providing the JSON file to the following command:

```bash
./strcli tx broadcast --node=<node> signedSendTx.json
```

### Query Transactions

#### Matching a Set of Events

You can use the transaction search command to query for transactions that match a specific set of `events`, which are added on every transaction.

Each event is composed by a key-value pair in the form of `{eventType}.{eventAttribute}={value}`.

Events can also be combined to query for a more specific result using the `&` symbol.

You can query transactions by `events` as follows:

```bash
./strcli q txs --events='message.sender=str1...'
```

And for using multiple `events`:

```bash
./strcli q txs --events='message.sender=str1...&message.action=withdraw_delegator_reward'
```

The pagination is supported as well via `page` and `limit`:

```bash
./strcli q txs --events='message.sender=str1...' --page=1 --limit=20
```

::: tip Note

The action tag always equals the message type returned by the `Type()` function of the relevant message.

You can find a list of available `events` on each of the SDK modules:

- [Staking events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/staking/spec/07_events.md)
- [Governance events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/gov/spec/04_events.md)
- [Slashing events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/slashing/spec/06_events.md)
- [Distribution events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/distribution/spec/06_events.md)
- [Bank events](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/bank/spec/04_events.md)
  :::

#### Matching a Transaction's Hash

You can also query a single transaction by its hash using the following command:

```bash
./strcli q tx [hash]
```

### Slashing

::: tip Note
You can find Slashing related CLI commands under
[Validators/Slashing](join-validator-mainnet.md#Slashing).
:::

### Minting

You can query for the minting/inflation parameters via:

```bash
./strcli q mint params
```

To query for the current inflation value:

```bash
./strcli q mint inflation
```

To query for the current annual provisions value:

```bash
./strcli q mint annual-provisions
```

### Staking

::: tip Note
You can find CLI commands related to delegating under
[Delegate](delegating-mainnet.md).
:::

### Nodes

If you are running a full node or a validator node, view the status by typing:

```bash
./strcli status
```

[How to run a full node on mainnet](run-full-node-mainnet.md).

### Governance

Governance is the process from which users in the Straightedge Network can come to consensus
on software upgrades, parameters of the mainnet or signaling mechanisms through
text proposals. This is done through voting on proposals, which will be submitted
by `STR` holders on the mainnet.

[How to participate in on-chain governance](../protocol/governance.md).

### Fee Distribution

#### Query Distribution Parameters

To check the current distribution parameters, run:

```bash
./strcli q distribution params
```

#### Query distribution Community Pool

To query all coins in the community pool which is under Governance control:

```bash
./strcli q distribution community-pool
```

#### Query Outstanding Validator rewards

To check the current outstanding (un-withdrawn) rewards, run:

```bash
./strcli q distribution validator-outstanding-rewards <validator-address>
```

#### Query Validator Commission

To check the current outstanding commission for a validator, run:

```bash
./strcli q distribution commission <validator-operator-address>
```

#### Query Validator Slashes

To check historical slashes for a validator, run:

```bash
./strcli q distribution slashes <validator-operator-address> <start-height> <end-height>
```

#### Query Delegator Rewards

To check current rewards for a delegation (were they to be withdrawn), run:

```bash
./strcli q distribution rewards <delegator-address> <validator-address>
```

#### Query All Delegator Rewards

To check all current rewards for a delegation (were they to be withdrawn), run:

```bash
./strcli q distribution rewards <delegator-address>
```

### Multisig Transactions

Multisig transactions require signatures of multiple private keys. Thus, generating and signing a transaction from a multisig account involve cooperation among the parties involved. A multisig transaction can be initiated by any of the key holders, and at least one of them would need to import other parties' public keys into their Keybase and generate a multisig public key in order to finalize and broadcast the transaction.

For example, given a multisig key comprising the keys `p1`, `p2`, and `p3`, each of which is held by a distinct party, the user holding `p1` would require to import both `p2` and `p3` in order to generate the multisig account public key:

```bash
./strcli keys add \
  p2 \
  --pubkey=strpub1addwnpepqtd28uwa0yxtwal5223qqr5aqf5y57tc7kk7z8qd4zplrdlk5ez5kdnlrj4

./strcli keys add \
  p3 \
  --pubkey=strpub1addwnpepqgj04jpm9wrdml5qnss9kjxkmxzywuklnkj0g3a3f8l5wx9z4ennz84ym5t

./strcli keys add \
  p1p2p3 \
  --multisig-threshold=2 \
  --multisig=p1,p2,p3
```

A new multisig public key `p1p2p3` has been stored, and its address will be
used as signer of multisig transactions:

```bash
./strcli keys show p1p2p3 -a
```

You may also view multisig threshold, pubkey constituents and respective weights
by viewing the JSON output of the key or passing the `--show-multisig` flag:

```bash
./strcli keys show p1p2p3 -o json

./strcli keys show p1p2p3 --show-multisig
```

The first step to create a multisig transaction is to initiate it on behalf
of the multisig address created above:

```bash
./strcli tx send str1570v2fq3twt0f0x02vhxpuzc9jc4yl30q2qned 1000000astr \
  --from=<multisig-address> \
  --generate-only > unsignedTx.json
```

The file `unsignedTx.json` contains the unsigned transaction encoded in JSON.
`p1` can now sign the transaction with its own private key:

```bash
./strcli tx sign \
  unsignedTx.json \
  --multisig=<multisig-address> \
  --from=p1 \
  --output-document=p1signature.json
```

Once the signature is generated, `p1` transmits both `unsignedTx.json` and
`p1signature.json` to `p2` or `p3`, which in turn will generate their
respective signature:

```bash
./strcli tx sign \
  unsignedTx.json \
  --multisig=<multisig-address> \
  --from=p2 \
  --output-document=p2signature.json
```

`p1p2p3` is a 2-of-3 multisig key, therefore one additional signature
is sufficient. Any the key holders can now generate the multisig
transaction by combining the required signature files:

```bash
./strcli tx multisign \
  unsignedTx.json \
  p1p2p3 \
  p1signature.json p2signature.json > signedTx.json
```

The transaction can now be sent to the node:

```bash
./strcli tx broadcast signedTx.json
```

## Shells Completion Scripts

Completion scripts for popular UNIX shell interpreters such as `Bash` and `Zsh`
can be generated through the `completion` command, which is available for both
`strd` and `strcli`.

If you want to generate `Bash` completion scripts run the following command:

```bash
strd completion > strd_completion
./strcli completion > strcli_completion
```

If you want to generate `Zsh` completion scripts run the following command:

```bash
strd completion --zsh > strd_completion
./strcli completion --zsh > strcli_completion
```

::: tip Note
On most UNIX systems, such scripts may be loaded in `.bashrc` or
`.bash_profile` to enable Bash autocompletion:

```bash
echo '. strd_completion' >> ~/.bashrc
echo '. strcli_completion' >> ~/.bashrc
```

Refer to the user's manual of your interpreter provided by your
operating system for information on how to enable shell autocompletion.
:::
